It is curious that there are a
lot of people, even marketing experts
who have spent hundreds of hours
studying and who have been in a
lot of years of marketing-related
profession, but who have not
acquired one of the skills that
is most valuable, which
is to learn to use words and
language to convince.
Look at it sounds simple, right?
It has a bestial impact.
It helps a lot to sell.
It has a much more impact than
knowing many of the theoretical
models that are studied in marketing,
right?
And there are people who call this
copywriting, by the way, but
well, we haven't used this term because
sometimes it seems that when you
talk about copywriting you're
only referring to the text of
the ads or the text of the
web page.
We have raised it a little and what
we have learned is to create
a script, a complete script, a script
in which all the messages you will
send to customers are incorporated,
in all the touch points
and what we do is give it
a script, give it a structure.
And we did it based on the model
created by Storybrand, which is
an American consultant who
is just specialized in this.
They are the best in the world in this.
So what have we learned?
Well, we've learned that the
first thing we have to do is
identify what the customer's
real desire is and aim,
above all, to connect with it,
right?
This is the first exercise we have
to do.
What does the customer really want?
We have learned to live up to basic
wishes.
What we need to do is help
you visualize the problem.
Then we have to position ourselves
as someone who can help you
solve that problem.
We have to generate trust in customers
and we have seen certain
tactics to do so.
It is also important that you let
him very clear what the plan is,
what the next steps are.
Since we do not generate comfort at
this point, many customers will
look for the mental excuse not to buy you.
What we have seen is that
we have to be permanently reinforcing,
making you see, reminding
you what the benefit of what
you will or, that is in positive
or negative, what you will
lose or what you will stop
winning in case you finally
don't decide.
These arguments will help us when
we ask you to buy, right?
Call to action.
It seems to me very interesting
that we remember the classification
of products or services according
to their level of involvement.
This is something that is barely
studied in Spanish business
schools and we have seen it in
some American.
Americans are more present.
And why do we consider at The Power
MBA that it is convenient that you
understand it well?
Well, because really the strategy
and all the marketing operations
are conditioned absolutely
depending on whether your product
is high or low level of
involvement.
It has nothing to do with what
you're going to do, what you're
going to play with, and so on.
We will go back to the class and
we will understand it.
Let's compare, let's think
first that we have a high-impact
product.
It is a product where decision-making
is more difficult for many reasons,
and among them because
the economic cost is higher.
Well, in this case we have to
touch certain leverages, we have
to look for much differentiation,
we have to generate a lot
of security if we do not
have a recognized brand,
we have to work above all nurturing,
we have to work on conversion
either by marketing
or by selling.
And now you will understand
the difference when we talk about
low-impact products that are products
in which decision-making is very
fast, it is very simple, they
are products usually with
a much more economical price in
which the customer is not playing
a lot depending on whether
you buy you or we will
play you.
We do not have to work nurturing,
we do not have to work conversion,
we do not have to work sales,
what we have to work
in this case for example
is accessibility, it is
convenience.
And if we put the example
of a food company that sells
through the large distribution
of supermarkets, for example,
then what will it play
in?
It will be played in being present at
a greater number of selling points
and wherever it is in the lineal.
Segmentation is one of the
basic concepts in marketing strategy,
in fact if we go to what the
theory, the STP model, segmentation,
targeting and positioning
says, segmentation is the
first step of all.
We may discuss whether before
segmentation the first step
is to understand what the problem
you solved is, what
the benefit you are generating
in the customer.
In any case, what we recommended
in Power MVA is that the main
segmentation variable that
will help you most is segmenting
according to the problem
or benefit sought.
Why is it?
That is, if you are able to identify
within your customer segments
or maybe you only have one but you
understand well what problem you
are solving or what benefit your
customers are looking for, if
you identify different segments
and adapt the proposals,
adapt the channels, etc., to
each of those segments, that
segmentation will have a lot
more impact than if we segment
in accordance with other criteria
such as geography, demographic,
psychographic, etc.
That is, it has more impact on you understanding
that your customers buy you for one
reason or another and that is what they
are looking for in you than if they
are 25 or 38 years old.
It will allow you to adapt much better
with much more efficiency all your
communications.
In any of the cases it is very important
that we know what are the main
variables or segmentation criteria
that the classic are geographical
segmentation, demographic segmentation,
there is a little more advanced
that is the segmentation by
profile or psychographic
in function, because
good segments according to
your lifestyle, your personality,
this helps you to
understand a little better
to customers, adapt
a little the messages.
There is another variable segmentation
that is worth stopping that
is behavioral segmentation.
In this case, what we do is
segment all our customers
based on the actions they
have previously carried
out with us, their previous
behavior.
So imagine that we present ourselves
based on those who have bought
us and those who have not bought
us in a very simple way.
By the way, the segmentation by
behavior to one to one segmentation,
we no longer speak of strategic
segmentation, especially
on the internet and we are all
living currently that through e-
commerce, for example, depending
on the purchases you have made,
the communications,
the offers, the promotions that
send you, the emails that
send you, are adapted
with what you have done
before.
This is what we are talking
about segmentation by behavior.
If we go to the marketing
books to the STP model, for
example, what you tell us
we have to segment, that then
we have to identify Targets and
that then we have to define
our positioning and our marketing
mix, etc.
But really this has evolved
and what we have learned is that
we don't have to think about Targets,
we don't have to think about segments,
in masses of customers, we
have to think about concrete
people.
So what we learned is to create
a customer person from each
of the customer segments.
You will have several customer person and
you have to describe them well, you
have to understand them well.
The customer person tool,
which directs you or recommends
you to name it, that you write
it, the truth is that what helps
you is to do, at least make the
effort to understand your
customers as best as possible.
Within the customer person, what
you have to incorporate is the most
valuable information for you.
How you use your product, who search
for your product, how is your day to
day that concerns you, etc.
The more detail we incorporate,
the better we understand our
customers and it will be a
starting point to adapt absolutely
everything we do afterwards, how
we impact them, with what messages,
through who,
etc.
The concept of positioning is basic
in marketing, you have to understand
it very well.
Positioning is the place you occupy
in the minds of your customers.
What we need to understand is that
it depends on the gap of
competitors, the gap that is in the
market.
You can pretend to have a certain
positioning, but if your competitors
don't let you there are established
players, etc., because
you won't get it.
By the way, positioning is very
related to other factors we
have seen, such as value proposition,
such as differentiation,
such as brand, for example.
Why do I say it is so important?
Because it is vital that
we have very clear what we
are and how customers see us
and what we want to be.
This is a very basic point
in a marketing strategy.
This, if you don't have what your
positioning is, what place you occupy
or what place you at least want to
occupy in the minds of your
customers, everything you do
afterwards will actually do it on
a foundation that is not solid.
And remember that what we saw
is some practical tips on how
to look for a powerful positioning.
We saw tips that what we can
pretend is first, creating
a category.
What we can be is the most expensive.
We can look for a positioning
doing things very differently,
etc.
To understand digital marketing
well, it is absolutely necessary
that you have a complete view
of the funnel.
From all its stages, in each
of those stages we have
to understand what are the objectives,
what are the tools we can
use, what are the metrics
we have to manage in each
of those stages, etc.
Then we could be months
in each of knowing the
tools for each of those stages.
This has a lot of development, but
it is very important to have this prior
view, this view of height, of
the total of the funnel, of the
structure.
If we start with the top
of the funnel, the goal in this
case is to attract visitors.
I think we will also contribute
to what is called awareness,
to know us, to branding.
But the primary and measurable
goal should be attraction of
visitors.
And here what we saw is that there are
two very different approaches.
We have inbound marketing and
we have outbound marketing.
It has huge implications in everything.
In the outbound, what we do is
pay, basically impact and attract
traffic.
It is more immediate.
Paying for traffic.
But it is less sustainable.
It has some disadvantages.
The inbound is a bit more complex.
What we have to do is attract
traffic, offering mainly attractive
content, which is attractive
to our target audience.
We attract them with that content
and end up on our website.
What we have to understand in the
inbound is that it is more long-term.
It is healthier and more sustainable.
In the outbound you pay
directly for that traffic.
Inbound does not have an indirect
cost, but it has an inbound
management cost.
But you don't pay for each of those visits.
Another thing to keep in mind, one
of the great advantages of inbound
marketing is the quality of
traffic.
Why is it?
Because you are generating traffic
that is more skilled.
You are generating traffic that you will
turn into better.
You have in mind that it is people
who have been interested or attracted
to the content you are generating,
who probably share something
more with you and who more
freely end up on your website.
So, of those it is easier that you
convert a higher percentage.
What we saw is almost every
channel or almost every
tool, both inbound and
outbound, to attract traffic.
SEO, social media, and so on.
And here what we have to understand
well is that what we have to
do is a mix.
And to make a mix we have to
understand what are the advantages
and disadvantages of each of
those channels, each of those tools.
And we did so based on many
variables, payback, complexity,
etc.
As I tell you, what you need to do
is understand them all to
establish the mix that helps you
in your particular case, to the
goals you have defined in your
digital marketing plan.
We go down to the funnel.
If we go further down, what we have to
do in this case, we have already
generated traffic, is to turn it.
Here what we saw, if you remember,
is that there are longer funnels
in which, for example, we start
by asking for the data, we capture
the leads and then we have to
do a lead nurturing.
We need to give you information
to convince that potential
customer.
For example, remember, by email
marketing or marketing automation,
automating emails, or
we also have shorter funnels
and this is usually low-
impact purchases.
Consider the classification of
levels of involvement.
In this case, the key is to encourage
faster, more impulsive purchases.
This is the case with the usability
of the website.
We played it in the short term
and we have seen and seen
many techniques that will
help us improve conversion
rates on the web.
By the way, in any of the cases
what we can do is use, support
us in retargeting, which
is to impact users again,
because users who have
visited us, who have
clicked on an ad, who have
left us their data, who
are already leads, etc.
It is a very broad concept of
retargeting, but it is very useful
because it is to impact again, it
is to accompany you along the funnel.
Now we go to the bottom
of the funnel.
In this case, what would be the goal?
The goal, basically, would be
that those customers who have
bought us, buy us again.
And here we can use many
tools we've seen, such as
re-impacting them through
email marketing or re-
impacting them through retargeting,
etc.
By the way, social networks,
which we have not yet talked
about, are very powerful
tools that help us throughout
the whole funnel, help us
to be permanently present in
the minds of users, offer
them interesting content, etc.
And if we go down the whole, it is an
additional phase in the funnel we
have incorporated, it is an expansive phase.
Why is it expansive?
Because in this case, at this
level, what we have the goal
is that our customers become
referrals, promoters, who
recommend us to others, who
generate more business,
to understand it in a simple way.
Of course, every effort we make in
this direction has a great impact
because you have in mind that if
you increase the rate of promoters,
because it is an organic way of
growing, because it is an unpaid
traffic, it is a way of growing
much healthier, because you are
not dependent on the capture
channels, you are not dependent
on paying permanently
that traffic.
To understand digital marketing
well, one of the most important
perspectives are metrics.
We have to understand very
well what the main metrics
are, which are not many along
all stages of the funnel.
If we go to the top of the funnel,
the important metrics,
what we have to measure is how
much it will cost us to attract
that traffic, the investment
we have made.
And also the number of visits, the
volume of traffic we are generating.
This is very simple.
Now we go down.
What do we need to measure?
We will have to measure the
conversion ratios throughout
the entire funnel.
If you have a longer funnel, you
will have more conversion ratios.
If it's shorter, you'll have
fewer ratios, but basically it'
s going to see how much
we're converting of all that
traffic as we go down the funnel.
One important aspect is the cost.
We need to know ultimately
how much each of the purchases
or each of the customers costs
us, which is the famous CTA
or customer acquisition cost.
But before we can go to other
cost metrics above and we
could know how much each visit
or how much each lead costs
us.
What we can never lose from
sight is the income.
How much will our customers generate?
We can measure the
average ticket, for example.
How much do we generate in each of
the sales?
The customer lifetime value is
what the customer will generate
throughout their lives.
All these metrics, which are
not many, we have to
monitor them constantly.
And that's why we always
have a dashboard where we
have all those metrics along
the entire funnel.
The main ones in your business.
Do not get crazy.
It is preferable that you identify
four or five and that you manage them
well, that you get mad with a business
intelligence dashboard that you
are ultimately unable to control.
And another thing you have to keep
in mind is that what we have
to do is measure.
Measure what happens in the funnel
for the different customer
segments or for the different
traffic sources.
If you are, for example, attracting
traffic in very different ways,
segment and measure it separately,
because if you put it all together
you can be confusing,
you can be asking for
a lot of information.
It also turns out that there is one of
the sources of traffic in which you are
investing money and that doesn'
t turn absolutely anything, you
are throwing the money.
That is why we always recommend
that segment based on the source
of traffic.
In the end, the management of online
marketing, digital marketing is
very simple and what we have to understand
is what are the keys in each
of the stages of the funnel.
If we go to the top, what we have
to do is attract as much traffic as
possible at the lowest cost, obviously,
but as long as it is of the
highest quality.
These are the variables, not the slopes.
We're going down the funnel, what
we have to do is optimize the conversion
rates, that is, lose as few
customers as possible, convert
to the highest percentage
of customers as possible.
Of course, if we take into account what
has cost us to capture each customer
and then calculate the conversion
ratio, what we will be able to calculate
here is how much it costs us to capture
each of the customers, which will
depend on those two variables
above.
Below what we have to do is increase
the average ticket, sell them as
much as possible or maintain
or get the largest value from customers
over time, which is the customer
lifetime value, which
will be the value we get throughout
the entire life of the
customer.
As you can see, the management of the
entire marketing plan is very simple
because it depends on a few leverage
that we have to understand very
well.